hi I'm Ben and this is the house I built
out of shipping containers now I've been
interested in shipping container
architecture for quite some time but I
had a really hard time finding good
information about how to get building
permits or how much would it cost well
we did the research we documented
everything that we did and now we're so
excited to share with you what we
learned so check it out all right so
this episode is gonna be a little bit on
the technical side we're gonna cover all
the sort of utilities plumbing HVAC
concerns that go into setting up a
container house so we're gonna start
with how to go from raw land to a house
with utilities from there we do an
overview of the electrical system I'm
going to show you how I connected this
container house to the utility grid I'll
give a little bit of insight into my
thinking for why I chose to be connected
to the grid with a battery backup rather
than going all the way off the grid I'll
go over the plumbing systems and how we
connected the house to water and show
you the heating and cooling systems that
we installed in this house all right to
start how to go from raw land to a house
with utilities now one of the most
confusing parts of buying raw land is
figuring out whether or not it's going
to have access to municipal electricity
and water I looked at a whole bunch of
different lots at zeroes I talked to the
different real estate agents and I never
really got clear answers from the real
estate people they really don't know and
then ones just the thing oh yeah you can
drill a well or you could do solar it's
a lot more complicated than that
those things are legitimate options but
really expensive and they're not
guaranteed so for example you could hear
oh you could drill a well but there
might not actually be water under your
particular part of land that was an
issue I ran into with the septic is that
oh you can do this but in that case that
particular piece of land proved to have
a lot of complications and it wasn't as
straightforward as the real estate
agents were telling me so the best thing
that I found is to go right to the local
utility suppliers and my taste is Joshua
Basin Water District they have a really
great map on their website this shows
you all the areas that they cover so you
can actually put in your APN number for
your particular piece of property that
you're looking at and they'll tell you
whether or not it can be connected to
their water so don't think the word from
someone is actually trying to sell the
land and makes their money off of that
deal go right to the suppliers find out
for them you go beyond hole it's kind of
a pain but just get that done and you'll
have better information so the land that
I purchased the real estate agent said
they didn't know about electricity of
water but I looked at actually the
satellite views of that lot on Google
Maps and I can see that there is
electrical poles running right alongside
and that gave me a good hint did that
have access to electricity and them from
there I called Southern California
Edison which is our utility provider and
they confirmed that they would be able
to provide service although I would have
to pay for a new transformer to be
installed on the pole near me now
connecting to utilities isn't free I had
to pay a fee to the Joshua basement
Water District for a new water meter I
had to pay for excavation to actually
run the pipes from their meter to the
house and then to pay for different
safety features like a backflow
protection device and things like that
they will really make sure that my house
is working well with their system so
those were all costs as the homeowner
that I had to take on for the
electricity had to pay for a transformer
to be installed on the pole now because
that transformer added weight
I also had to pay for excavation and for
them to add an extra support cable to
make the pole more sturdy and to pay for
the excavation from the pole to the
house and the wire and conduit that goes
into there and of course for the
installation of electrical panel and all
the things that go with that so although
I spent almost as much money just
connecting the house to electricity and
water as I paid for the land itself all
right so now let's go to an overview of
the electrical systems and how we
connected the container house to the
utility grid we located the house about
70 feet from the nearest utility pole
the meter and main breaker panel will be
located on the side closest to the pole
all the wiring for the interiors will
come off of that main breaker panel and
the different containers will be
connected via underground conduit we
installed a battery backup system that
can provide electricity if the power
goes out this system will also serve as
storage for the solar panels so now
let's go over the process of how we
connected the house to the electrical
grid connecting to the electrical grid
is done by running a wire underground
through some conduit from the pole to
the electrical Mead
and main breaker panel the utility
company wanted a straight run between
the electrical meter and the pole this
is because the wire they're gonna pull
through the conduit is really thick and
having lots of turns in the conduit can
make it difficult the conduit needs to
be about four feet underground
and we need just a single right angle
turn to turn up from this trench and
into the bottom of the electrical meter
now the problem with this is is that the
concrete foundation sticks out past the
edge of a shipping container so we're
going to dig down into the dirt and then
cut a slice into the concrete so that we
can get this right angle turn that's
flush up against the side of the
container Marko used a large concrete
saw to make some slices right into the
foundation and then from there he
switched to a jackhammer to break away
the pieces now he could have cast the
conduit right into the edge of the
foundation slab but we hadn't had a
chance to confirm yet with the utility
company exactly where they wanted
electrical panel but cutting this notch
into concrete went faster than I
expected so it all worked out the
electrical panel is quite heavy so Tony
cut some pieces of 2x4 that would allow
the box to rest at the right height
while he drove in self tapping screws
[Music]
with the electrical panel in place it
was now time to dig the trench the
electric company gave us really specific
specifications about the depth of the
trench the fact that it had to be lined
with sand and that the conduit Run had
to be straight except for the right
angle turn up into the electrical panel
all this took about two days but finally
we were able to get the conduit turn
right up snug against the container we
filled in the space around the conduit
with quikrete fast-setting cement this
is a pre-mixed cement that comes in
10-pound tubs later we had two
additional conduit runs one is for the
battery backup system and the other one
is to power the septic pump the rest of
the electrical installation went easily
installed outlets lights and ran wires
according to the electrical plan an
electrical plan is an architectural
document that is used to tell the
construction workers where to place all
of the electrical components if you're
using an architect to plan out a
construction project this is an
important page to review if you're
really particular about where you want
to charge all your electrical devices
we also ran wires through underground
conduit to connect the containers to
each other I welded up some pieces of
steel square tube to make covers to
protect these pieces of conduit
connecting to the electrical grid was a
lot of work and it cost a fair amount of
money so a lot of people have asked why
didn't I just go off the grid with solar
so now I'm gonna go over why I went
grid-tied instead of off the grid
photovoltaic panels or solar panels are
really great there's no moving parts
they last a really long time and other
than just keeping dust off of them
they're virtually maintenance-free
storing to energy they produce for a
completely off-grid home is the
challenge now there's a lot of battery
options on the market in fact I'm going
to show you a option from goal zero that
we use is a small backup system in case
the grid does go down but to truly be
full time off the grid you need to rely
on that battery bank for everything and
that means you have to size it big
enough so it can handle the worst
weather that you might expect every 10
to 20 years and so that's the inherent
inefficiency is that you have to size
everything for the worst-case scenario
but you're paying for that
infrastructure all the time so if you're
going fully off the grid with all your
power coming from solar you really have
to take into account those anomalous
weather activities and not just that you
also have to think about when your
demand or your usage might be higher
than normal if you have houseguests over
for the holiday if you size your system
for the average day where it's just you
you might not have enough capacity to
have a lot of guests in place and then
if you size your system for these
unusual situations again you get this
really big system then on an average day
you're not really using it to its full
capacity and all of this infrastructure
both the solar panels and the batteries
are pricey so when you're designing an
off-the-grid house you sort of in the
sticky situation of do by design towards
the average and be cost efficient or do
a design towards the exception but then
spend a lot of money a grid-tied house
lets you use the utility grid as a free
battery so when you over produce you
sell back to the grid and when you under
produce you draw from the grid so this
lets you keep your energy storage more
minimal and just for emergencies and it
really lets you design to the most
common scenarios that you're actually
living in now if you're interested in
grid tight house
with net metering check out the work of
my architecture firm zero energy design
grid-tied is what we recommend in most
cases now what I did for this container
house is a little bit different I'm
connected to the grid for all my
electrical needs but I installed a small
goal zero backup battery system in this
way if we have a power outage I can
still power a few key circuits in the
house namely the refrigerator the Wi-Fi
and lights and stuff like that now one
of the reasons I went with this system
is that it was super easy to install
which is what I'm going to show you know
so we're here today and we're installing
a new gold zero product this is a home
energy system and what's really cool
about this is that it can provide a
battery backup in case the grid goes
down so there's a few main components of
the system we have the Yeti which is the
brains of the situation and that's a
lithium battery then we have the the
massive amount of storage that we can
get in the lead acid battery and then
the last part is that transfer switch so
if a disaster happens we're just a
normal power outage we'll be able to go
out there let the transfer switch and be
running off of that system but the
reason I like the goal 0 products so
much isn't that they're good in an
emergency is that they're good everyday
you see the whole system is portable and
modular so I actually use this system
for powering the majority of my
construction tools during this build
nothing needs to be wired together with
an electrician it's all just plug and
play and I have used it to charge
everything from my power tools to an
electric motorcycle and we've only had
one power outage in the last 18 months
so I'm not getting a lot of value out of
that so what I've been thinking of how
to take advantage of this system on a
more regular basis is I'm gonna use it
to charge my electric motorcycle and the
majority of my power tools that are
battery-powered this way I can install
three small 100 watt solar panels on the
roof plug that right into the goal zero
and that way I have a little
self-contained system that I can use for
these extra electrical needs and that
way I'm getting value every day out of
the goal zero system in addition to
having a B they're nice and ready if the
utility grid goes down so this is a very
high level explanation you can go much
deeper into this topic and there's all
sorts of cool ways you can model out
systems and really figure
whether work specs for you but I hope my
brief explanation was a little bit
clarifying hooking the house up to water
was a lot less complicated than
electricity
once the water meter was installed we
just had to run pipes underground and
then enter the container at two
different points we're gonna have a
single on-demand electric hot water
heater service the whole property so
then we had to run hot water lines back
from the heater to the other container
from there it's just about running hot
and cold water lines to all the
appropriate plumbing fixtures for the
underground pipes that are bringing
water to the house we use PVC I'm really
not sure what my excavator and plumbers
were thinking and why they didn't go in
a straight line but it still worked once
we got close to the surface we switched
to copper installed a shutoff valve and
then the pipe goes up into a tee that
goes to a hose bib on one side and into
the containers on the other I've
soldered copper before and it's a little
bit tricky and because this is all going
to be inside the walls and I don't want
any leaks
I left all of the pipes sweating to the
experts the plumbers actually started on
the Ruffins before we even started unto
framing and then they came back
periodically as we framed out the walls
that would support the showerheads
the supplies for the laundry machines
and the hot water heater the back end of
this 20-foot container is going to be
used as a laundry and mechanical space
after putting up sheetrock we installed
a Rheem on-demand hot water heater and
it's been fantastic I was a little
concerned at first because of the
distance but it all works really well
and we got plenty of hot water and now
let's talk Heating and Cooling we're
gonna use mini split ductless heat pumps
to both heat and cool the house there
are two major components to the system
the outside part is called a condenser
it is a fan and condenser coils that
either extract heat from the building or
add it back into it this is done through
tubes filled with working fluid and no
air is actually blown into or out of the
building the inside unit is called the
air handler and that uses the working
fluid to either blow hot or cool air
multiple air handlers can be connected
to a single condenser in the main unit I
have two air handlers one in the living
room one in the bedroom and they're
connected to a single condenser the
guest room has a single ceiling mounted
air handler and the less often used
office and storage space has two
wall-mounted air handlers and all three
of these air handlers are connected to a
single condenser having two containers
on a single condenser and involve
digging a trench and running the lines
with the working fluid underground the
design of the system
and the installation was all handled by
Home Depot's Home Services team they
send the team out first to measure the
spaces and find a good place to install
them and also to check out the amount of
insulation that we're using so they
could appropriately select components
that would work for this house the
installation team worked really fast and
was able to install the whole setup for
the whole property in just one day the
only thing that has to pass through the
wall from the inside to the outside are
some electrical wires a hose to get rid
of condensation and a couple of thin
copper tubes that are insulated for the
working fluid mini splits have no ducts
so they avoid energy losses associated
with the duct works that central forced
air systems have duct losses can account
for more than 30% of energy consumption
for space conditioning especially at the
ducts are in an unconditioned space such
as an attic I wanted to use them for the
container house though because they
don't take up a lot of space and they
give you a lot of design flexibility I
didn't want to cut through more metal
joist or lower the ceiling so that I'd
make room for the ducts
then Staller hit all the lines and
cables inside this nice housing
we use the channel at the bottom of the
container to tuck away the set of lines
that run to the second air handler these
mini splits come with a remote control
that allows you to raise and lower the
temperature and they have a variety of
other settings as well but we really
wanted to take this up a notch
so we installed these eco be smart
thermostats which give us all sorts of
great control options I'll put a link to
these and the other systems that we used
in the description box below
I really like the functionality of the
mini splits and the wall-mounted units
don't really bother me but some people
find them a little bit visually
obtrusive so what we thought would be
cool is that for the smaller 20-foot
container if we test it out this
brand-new offering from Mitsubishi and
that is a ceiling mounted air handler
now that involves dropping down the
ceiling then we just did that with some
two by fours and plywood and I wouldn't
want to do this for the whole 40-foot
container because that's actually gonna
be living space but here the only area
that I'm actually gonna need to lower
the ceiling is right over the bed and
that's gonna make it this really nice
cozy nook so I took the disadvantages of
this system and then turned them into an
architectural feature I highly recommend
mini-split ductless systems for
remodeling or for small homes that
you're building from scratch not only
did I use them here in Joshua Tree I
used a similar Mitsubishi system in my
Boston loft as well you can request a
free consultation by calling 1-800 Home
Depot and their experts will provide
multiple options that are right for your
home and that climate that you're in now
you wouldn't want a cool or warm air
coming right down on top of the bed but
don't worry this air hammer actually
shoots the air out at an angle so it's
actually going past it so if you're into
bed you won't get hit directly by the
airflow so I know that was a lot of
technical information in the next few
episodes we're gonna get back to sort of
finishing the exterior of the house
painting it and start getting into the
interior design as well sorry about the
delay in this video I've been really
busy with the other homemade modern
stuff and a few other projects that I
got going on but I should be wrapping up
the rest of this series within the next
two to three months if you're interested
into architectural drawings for this
project I'll have a link to where you
can get those in the description box
below and I'm starting to put together a
list of all the commonly asked questions
and one of the last videos that I'll do
for this series is just a Q&A session
where I go through and answer all those
commonly asked questions so keep them
coming in the comment section alright
that's it for this episode thanks for
watching be sure to subscribe and turn
on notifications I don't have a regular
posting schedule so if you want to know
when a video goes live click that
notification button so you get a get
notified I'm never going to be spamming
out this account the videos are going to
come whew
far between so it's pretty safe to hit
that Bell alright bye